docs(kubernetes): easy deploy application library - MTA-1878 (#531)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/kubernetes/how-to/enable-easy-deploy.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to deploy containerized applications with the Easy Deploy feature
  description: This page explains how to deploy containerized applications with the Easy Deploy feature
content:
  h1: How to deploy containerized applications with the Easy Deploy feature
  paragraph: This page explains how to deploy containerized applications with the Easy Deploy feature
dates:
  validation: 2022-01-17
  posted: 2020-10-14
---

> The Easy Deploy feature allows you to pull images directly from [Scaleway Container Registry](/compute/container-registry/concepts#container-registry), instantly deploying containerized applications in your [Kubernetes Kapsule](/compute/kubernetes/concepts#kubernetes-kapsule) and [Kubernetes Kosmos](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/kubernetes/concepts/#kubernetes-kosmos) cluster, as well as deploying on-the-self applications pre-configured with Scaleway products specifics (such as Load Balancer and Block Storage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Easy Deploy feature allows you to pull images directly from [Scaleway Container Registry](/compute/container-registry/concepts#container-registry), instantly deploying containerized applications in your [Kubernetes Kapsule](/compute/kubernetes/concepts#kubernetes-kapsule) and [Kubernetes Kosmos](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/kubernetes/concepts/#kubernetes-kosmos) clusters, as well as deploying off-the-shelf applications pre-configured for Scaleway products (such as Load Balancer and Block Storage).
```

> **With only the basic options to set, you can use Kubernetes Kapsule or Kosmos without managing your `.yaml` manifests.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**With only the basic options to set, you can use Kubernetes Kapsule or Kosmos without needing to manage your `.yaml` manifests.**
```

4. Click **Deploy an application**. 

5. Deploy the application. This step can be done in two ways:

  * **Deployment from Container Registry**

    * After selecting **Container Registry**, enter a name for your application as well as the Kubernetes namespace on which the deployment will run. By default, the application is deployed on the `default` namespace.

    * Select the Container Registry namespace you would like to deploy from the Container Registry. Specify **Container** and **Tag**.

      <Message type="note">

      Your container needs to be public in order to be selected and deployed.

      </Message>

      You can configure the deployment of your clusters in two ways: **Deployments** or **CronJobs**.

      A **Deployment** represents a set of identical Pods with no individual identities, managed by a deployment controller. The deployment controller runs multiple replicas of an application as specified in a ReplicaSet. If any pods fail or become unresponsive, the deployment controller replaces them until the actual state equals the desired state. **By using a Deployment Kubernetes object, you do not need to manage your Pods nor your ReplicaSet.**

>       You can set up a Load Balancer for your container, create several replicas and add environment variables, such as database host/credentials, for example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      You can set up a Load Balancer for your container, create several replicas and add environment variables, such as database host/credentials. 
```

      **CronJobs** in Kubernetes work like traditional cron jobs in Linux. They can be used to run tasks at a specific time or interval and may be useful for jobs such as backups or cleanup tasks. You can edit your Deployments and CronJobs settings, but cannot modify the type of deployment nor the Container to deploy. If you need to do so, you will need to delete the existing deployment and create a new one accordingly.

      For cronjobs, an instruction schedule must be defined. Each Cron instruction is scheduled using the following syntax:
      ```
      Minute (mm): 0 - 59
      Hour (hh): 0 - 23
      Day of the Month (dd): 1 - 31
      Month (MMM): 1 - 12
      Day of the Week (DDD): 0 - 6 (Sunday to Saturday, 7 is also Sunday on some systems)
      ```
      Each instruction can also be:
      ```
      *: at each unit (1, 2, 3, 4...)
      5,8: at unit 5 and 8
      2-5: at unit 2 to 5
      */3: every 3 unit (0, 3, 6, 9...)
      10-20/3: every 3 units, between the tenth and the twentieth (10, 13, 16, 19)
      
      Example: 45 23 * * 6
      This example executes program at 23:45 (11:45 PM) every Saturday.
      ``` 

>       You must also include a path to your script in the **Command** box and set-up environment variables. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      You must also include a path to your script in the **Command** box and set up environment variables. 
```

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-kubernetes-application-library.webp" alt="" />

    * Search and select the application you want to deploy from our library. For example, you can choose to deploy the Wordpress application. A default `yaml` configuration will preload to show the specifics defaults values of the application. You can modify or add values to the `yaml` as you see fit.

      <Lightbox src="scaleway-kubernetes-yaml-edit.webp" alt="" />

      * Using `scw-bssd` Storage type will imply the creation of Scaleway Block Storage resources by your Kubernetes cluster, having an impact on your final invoice.
      * Using `LoadBalancer` service will imply the creation of a Scaleway Load Balancer, having an impact on your final invoice.

    * Click **Deploy an Application** to proceed. The list of your deployed applications displays.

    * If you created a LoadBalancer to expose your application, use the `kubectl` command to list the services of your cluster and get the LoadBalancer external IP.
      
      <Lightbox src="scaleway-kubernetes-kubectl-all.webp" alt="" />

>     * Get the Load Balancer external IP and use it in your web browser to access your application (Wordpress in this case)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Get the Load Balancer's external IP and use it in your web browser to access your application (Wordpress in this case)
```
